The initial version of our app was one.
I was the first front-end engineer and
the only front-end engineer in
working with that designer.
And I think out of the box,
any kind of really flexible general
purpose styling tool, Tailwind,
whatever, doesn't really matter.
It has stuff like red and blue,
and stuff along those lines.
And so early me and
then now as the leader of the team,
everyone else followed my fault
is what I'm trying to say,
use colors like red and
blue throughout the UI, right?
And so I work on the thing has workflows,
some of them are canceled,
some of them are terminated,
those had color meanings.
Design team comes in and
now all of a sudden you wanna change what
certain colors mean throughout the UI,
which means going through, because
not all red, red was the bad stuff.
It was also like the little
required button.
It was also lots of other things.
Don't get me started on blue, right?
[LAUGH] And so at one point, it makes
sense to no longer refer to colors,
but to refer to the semantic meaning,
right?
Especially once you have theming,
because you might have a color called
light blue turns out in dark mode,
that's not light blue, right?
And so then you need to go ahead and
have a new philosophy on how
you go about this, right?
And there's different extremes
to which you can take it, right?
One is you can start even just
with the various shades of,
no longer calling it green or whatever.
So by default,
we start out with primary warning,
danger, you can call it error,
call it whatever you want.
And then informations,
which are primary, secondary warning,
information, danger, success,
that was the one I was missing.
[LAUGH] You can tell I'm a pessimist.
So starting out with those colors, because
then like theoretically, if you wanna
change all the success messages, you can
just actually find that class and just
tweak that color versus green, which could
be used for things that are not success.
And you don't wanna change that per se,
or blue is, again, like even more
insidious than green and red,
which kind of tend to map very closely.
So we don't,
we purged all of the references through
a color in our code base, right?
Because it made refactoring hard.
Now, under the hood, obviously
colors are things that exist, but
one of the things you can do is whether or
not you're doing with your own utility
classes, your own CSS variables we have
you or with Tailwind, is sometimes, like,
replacing the color set with
something themed devalues.
And so I'll show a few different because
we use multiple strategies for this.
I'll kind of show you all of them.
One of them is if I kind of pull
out the derived color palette
from our fun little design system.
You've got these colors,
they have their semantic meanings or
primary secondary accent, which is yet
just a little like the required button and
stuff like that, and then this information
success, warning, danger, and state.
Here's the issue,
if people on your team, or
you on a bad day have access to colors,
you're gonna use them, right?
So part of it becomes how do we
basically limit the access that goes,
which is somehow hiding
them in your code base?
And so let's say we didn't wanna
say any kind of background, and
I've slayed, those are just my
various surface colors as well.
So Tailwind, we can go ahead and
just kind of you can extend it,
things of a Tailwind theme,
and then you can replace them.
And I feel this way a lot
of any kind of UI kit and
Tailwind in particular is
there are a lot of colors.
Let's not be too hyperbolic.
There's a lot of colors.
There's also like, I think eight or
nine different border radii settings,
like eight or nine different box shadows.
And if you have eight or nine box shadows,
your team will use eight or
nine box shadows, right?
They will use eight or nine border radii.
And then you'll try to reuse something
in a different part of the codebase and
realize that everything looks like trash,
right?
And so kind of beginning to part of
like implementing a design system being
to maintain your codebase is taking
the surface area of choice and
constraining it as much as possible.
So let's look at how to do that
in Tailwind, but like it could.
We'll see CSS variables in a little bit.
I'll show you a strategy that we literally
shipped this past Friday, right?
So I'll show you that as well and kind
of just some of our thinking around it.
So over in here, I've got those
colors that you saw earlier.
One of the things I would say as
a workflow thing, and for whatever set of
tools that you have, is if you can
automate this in some way, this is great.
So we happen to use Figma, but
there's always a version of
this that'll work for you.
There are plugins.
So, for instance,
there's variables to CSS.
This tool is great,
because I can grab this case colors, and
then I can either generate a Tailwind
theme or honestly CSS variables, right?
And from the design system in
Figma generate all of the CSS for
variables that I might need, right?
And so this involves two things, though
this involves how you structure your code,
and also how you collaborate
with the design team.
Because if they're just
using hex codes willy-nilly,
then it doesn't really matter,
like you're kind of stuck with that.
So it involves a little bit of like,
kind of like that collaboration
working together.
But if you can kind of
Come up with this system,
you can first of all come up with a set of
colors that you use and generate that, so
at least you have a more
defined set of colors.
The other thing that you can
do to take it one step further
is we actually don't use those colors
in our code base at all, right?
They're aliased to from,
if you could see these component colors.
And Ash and I worked on this for honestly
two months because figuring out a naming
convention that didn't drive us
insane was really, really hard, and
it will be different in your application.
There's no silver bullet for
solving this, but we then have, and
this is just a smaller subset of, okay,
we've got button primary default,
button primary hover,
button primary active, right?
I've got that for disabled buttons,
ghost buttons, secondary buttons,
input fields while they're disabled,
and so
there's a bunch of name colors that
do alias to those colors, right?
These are the only colors you're allowed
to reference in our code base, right?
Because we just literally
hide the rest of the color.
You can't get the rest of them.
And so then you just say, okay,
this button should have reference to CSS
variable that, we use CSS variables.
It could be anything you want,
that is this color.
So now we need to change
all the primary buttons.
We just tweak that one variable.
And so
we have all of that kinda put in place and
instead of even those dark colon stuff,
we actually just have a set
of CSS variables that relate to
everything we use in the code base.
And then when you switch
them to dark mode,
we switch the values of
those CSS variables.
So if we wanted to add seven more themes,
what's involved in that?
Going into Figma,
once Ash finishes that up,
going to variables2css,
going to Component Colors,
hitting Ignore aliases, and
getting these new CSS variables.
And having whatever the selector
is that puts into high
contrast mode, like summer mode,
whatever, right?
And we can swap these out, and this is
where that kind of both designers and
how they structure the design system.
And then for you and the way that
you structure your code base and
the implementation of that design system,
take things that,
like it took us six weeks to
refactor our code base to do this.
It will take about six hours,
not even that right just honestly just
running through the tests and like,
our tests are good, but a little clicking
around is usually helpful as well.
And you know beta stuff like that and
like adding another theme will then
not take any work whatsoever, right?
And just swapping out another mode
with another set of variables,
adding maybe the stories and
stuff like that that kind of updating
the automation around it, will work.
Because if we go to three or four themes,
having again, a set of automation around
this really helps and this is kinda
what we have set up in storybook and
when you can too, in our time together.